README.md, before:

# typedtsv
A simple format for typing TSVs with an implementation in Python

## Why?
JSON, YAML, TOML and other simple formats aren't built for list/table like sets of data.

YAML is particularly slow due to its expansive featureset and JSON, being that is for single objects and not collections, is not chunkable.  TOML is particularly targeted towards configuration files and similarly parses results in a single dictionary object.

I once stored all PyPI package info in a YAML file and reading it back out was going to take half a day.  Using a dead-simple newline-delimited JSON format made parsing take seconds.

CSV/TSV formats have too much ambiguity resulting in repetitive custom parsing logic contained outside the file itself.

newline-delimited JSON is convenient with little chance of making mistakes in parsing but the types supported are a bit too limited (no int vs float).
It is also not easily human readable or editable.

## Goals
- Be simple
- Be fast
- Be a better alternative to CSV/TSV/JSON and simple uses of YAML

## Non-Goals
- Unlimited extensibility a la YAML
- Config files. Focus is on lists of objects/tabular data

## Format
Format is a normal TSV except the header rows uses a colon format to annotate the type:

`<col_name>:<col_type>\t<col_name2>:<coL_type2>...`

For example:

```
url:str    n_times:int   score:float
https://www.example.com 5   1.6
https://archive.org 99  9.9
```

Initial pass centered around Python's basic types plus JSON.  Current valid types are:
- int
- float
- str
- json

The two modifications for string are newlines and tabs must be escaped.

TODO:
- Add a boolean type
- Add a time type
- Maybe: support array and map types for compatibility with Postgres

## Developing

Make sure you have Poetry installed: https://github.com/sdispater/poetry

```bash
git clone git@github.com:jimmybot/typedtsv.git
cd typedtsv
poetry install
poetry shell
pytest
```

Commit message:

Add support for bool type; fix newline processing bug; bump to 0.3.0

README.md, after:

# typedtsv
Typed TSV: A simple format for typing TSVs with an implementation in Python 3.

## Why?
JSON, YAML, TOML and other simple formats aren't built for list/table like sets of data.

YAML is particularly slow due to its expansive featureset and JSON, being that is for single objects and not collections, is not chunkable.  TOML is particularly targeted towards configuration files and similarly parses results in a single dictionary object.

I once stored all PyPI package info in a YAML file and reading it back out was going to take half a day.  Using a dead-simple newline-delimited JSON format made parsing take seconds.

CSV/TSV formats have too much ambiguity resulting in repetitive custom parsing logic contained outside the file itself.

Newline-delimited JSON is convenient with little chance of making mistakes in parsing and good performance.  The downsides are types supported are a bit too limited (no int vs float), and it is also not easily human readable or editable.

## Goals
- Be simple
- Be fast
- Be a better alternative to CSV/TSV/JSON and simple uses of YAML

## Non-Goals
- Unlimited extensibility a la YAML
- Config files. Focus is on lists of objects/tabular data

## Format
Format is a normal TSV except the header rows uses a colon format to annotate the type:

`<col_name>:<col_type>\t<col_name2>:<coL_type2>...`

For example:

```
url:str    n_times:int   score:float
https://www.example.com 5   1.6
https://archive.org 99  9.9
```

Initial pass centered around Python's basic types plus JSON.  Current valid types are:
- int
- float
- bool      # Valid values: true, false, t, f, yes, no, y, n, 1, 0
- str       # Newlines, tabs, and backward slash must be escaped
- json

## TODO:
- ~~Add a boolean type~~
- Add a time type
- Maybe: support array and map types for compatibility with Postgres

## Developing

Make sure you have Poetry installed: https://github.com/sdispater/poetry

```bash
git clone git@github.com:jimmybot/typedtsv.git
cd typedtsv
poetry install
poetry shell
pytest
```
